# Cloud Data Warehouse & ETL Pipeline
## Project Overview
Sparkify is a music streaming startup, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in **AWS S3**, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the music app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As a data engineer, I will build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3 and copy into staging table in **Redshift**, and transforms data into **Star Schema Database** with a set of dimensional tables for marketing and analytics team to query aggregated information and find insights of song plays.

## Dataset
There are 3 datasets that reside in S3:

Song data: `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
Log data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`
log_json_path data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json` contains the meta information that is required by AWS to correctly load `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`

#### Song Dataset: 
Song Dataset is a subset of real data from [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset:

`song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json`
`song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json`

An example of what a single song file:
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this  [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim)  based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month.

For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset:

`log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json`
`log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json`

An example of what the data in a log file, 2018-11-12-events.json: 

[log_data picture]

#### Log Json Meta Information
Below is what data is in `log_json_path.json`:

[Contents of log_json_path.json]

  
## Star Schema for Song Play Analysis

#### Fact Table
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays. Columns for the table:

songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

#### Dimension Tables 
##### users

user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
##### songs

song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

##### artists

artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

##### time

start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


## How to Run
#### Set up AWS cloud cluster:
1. Use 

#### Create tables

`python create_tables_redshift.py`

#### Load Data

`python ETL_S3_Redshift.py`


Reference: [AWS Redshift Doc](https://aws.amazon.com/redshift/getting-started/?p=rs&bttn=hero&exp=b)